Consider the case of the Boeing 737 Max plane, grounded for over a year after two fatal crashes and the several near-crashes. The saga of the 737 Max reveal something fundamental about the nature organization decision-making; changes to state of one component, whether in a product or the organization itself, often alters the state of other components. In the case of the 737 Max, Boeing was facing superior competition in the narrow-bodied aircraft segment from Airbus, whose A320neo model was significantly more fuel efficient. To avoid losing the whole market segment, Boeing needed to incorporate more fuel-efficient engines, which happened to be larger. This wasn't a problem for the A320 models, but the 737 models were shorter and couldn't accommodate the engines in the usual way.

Faced with the prospect of a decade long design and certification process for a whole new plane that broke interoperability standards with the 737 series, Boeing chose to engage in a redesign process. Instead of being placed directly under the wing like prior models, the larger engines were placed far enough forward on the wing to be raised closer to flush with the wing. It was known that this would require rebalancing the weight, but it was not understood immediately that doing so would create shock waves over the wings at high speed and provide extra lift around the engines.
https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/times-watchdog/the-inside-story-of-mcas-how-boeings-737-max-system-gained-power-and-lost-safeguards/

This lead to some behaviors that even seasoned pilots would not expect. This is against FAA rules so Boeing introduced a new computer control system, a new external sensor and optional override switches. Pilots were not to be trained on the operation of these systems in simulators in order to avoid incurring penalties for creating additional costs for the airlines purchasing the aircraft. The end results was 346 deaths, severe reputational costs for Boeing and the FAA, fines, lost revenue, and more; an unmitigated disaster.

While many case studies will be written on this sequence of events and its causes, it reveals an important fact about decision making in many settings: a decision to alter an aspect of a complex system often alters other aspects. Decision makers might be able to choose the state of a focal component exactly as they wish, but they do not ultimately choose the position in the state space. Functional interdependencies or correlations between state variables require that the changing of one state alters the others.

This is not how search in currently studied in the organization literature. Instead the position in the state space is fully controlled by the decision maker and it is the fitness of the position that is unknown.
